###### shortcut to build a React App => createReactApp() ==> production ready

==> but knowing the actual work behind create react app

- to push the code to production, the code has to be optimised, lot of things (bundling, minification etc.)

* react makes the app faster along with other software/packages

```
npm init
or
npm init -y(continues without asking)
```

- _package.json_ is a configuration to **NPM**

### What is 'NPM'?

- NPM is Node package Manager that manages all the packages that are required to build a production ready app by minifing, optimizing the code and images, removing console.log(), bundling etc.

### What is Parcel/Webpack/veet? Why do we need it?

- parcel/ Webpack are the bundlers that helps to minify, clean, and makes the code compact for sending request and receiving response easily.

eg: **_Create React App_** uses _webpack_ as a bundler and _Babel_ as a transpiler/compiler.
_(search transpiler vs compiler)_

---

```
npm install -D parcel
or
npm i -D parcel
```

### What is the difference between 'dependencies' vs 'dev-dependencies'?

- 'dependencies' refers to **_production ready apps_**
  => indicated by -D in commands like, 'npm install -D parcel'

- 'dev-dependencies' refers to **_development environment/apps_** only
  => indicated when there is absence of -D in commands like, 'npm install react'

---

###### responsibilities of PARCEL(Bundler)

- hot module replacement
- Dev build
- Local Server
- File watching Algorithm

* Caching -Faster Build
* image optimization
* Minification
* Bundling

* backward compatibility (supporting old versions of chrome/browser)
  This leads to **Differential bundling** => transpilation => babel
* Compression
* **Consistent Hashing**
* Diagnostics (of errors)
* Error Handling
* supports HTTPS
* Tree Shaking -removes unused code
* Different dev and production build
  ==> while using parcel, no need to mention the source/entry-point of the project (as parcel supports **_zero-configuration_**)
  ==> therefore, no need of "main": 'file-name' in package.json

---

### List down your favourite 5 superpowers of Parcel and describe ay 3 of them in your own words.

some of the Superpowers/ Responsibilities of Parcel 'the BUNDLER' are:

- creating the server,
- minify the file,
- removes console.log(),
- optimises the images,
- reflects the changes on server by 'Hot Module Replacement'
- has 'file watcher algo'
- consistent hashing algo
- supports HTTPS
- API proxy
- backward-compatibility

* Parcel supports HTTPS for using a hostname for authentication cookies, or for debugging mixed content issues.

  - To use an automatically generated self-signed certificate, use the --https CLI flag. The first time you load the page, you may need to manually trust this certificate in your browser.

* File watchers: written in C++
* ---

### Read about: ^ - caret and ~ - tilde

- ~ (tilde) => allows minor version changes
  eg: ~1.4.2 will allow 1.4.2, 1.4.3, 1.4.4... till 1.4.9 only
  => won't allow 1.5.0 or 2.0.0

- ^ (caret) => allows Major version changes
  eg: ^1.4.2 will allow 1.5.0, 1.6.0 or till 1.9.0

        => won't allow 2.0.0

---

###### what is packageLock.json

### difference between 'package.json' and 'package-lock.json'

- package.json file contains the metadata about the project along with the functional dependencies that is required by the application.

  - package.json will automatically **updates** the version of packages present in the project

- package-lock.json **locks the version** of packages to ensure that the version present in local system for development is same as that of versions present for production .

* package-lock.json keeps hash of all versions of all packages/dependencies

---

### Why shouldn't the pacakge-lock.json file be modified?

- package-lock.json file is a 'generated file' and is not designed to be modified manually.
- this file tracks the entire tree of dependencies.
- also locks the version of each dependencies
- package-lock.json should be committed to the code repository.

---

### What is '**node_modules**'? Is it good idea to push that on git?

- temporary folder that can be regenerated using npm init

* is a collection of dependencies
* has data of dependencies
* contains all the packages required for package.json and package-lock.json required dependencies.

- when npm is installed, node-module folder is created.
- the node-modules can be re-generated by using package.json and package-lock.json. therefore, it should not be pushed to git.

- node-modules contains all the helper packages that are required for creating an App. These pacakges help in minifying, clean the code, clear the console.logs, optimisations and a lot more.

- **_ AnyThing that can be re-generated shouldn't be in Git._**
  Since node-modules can be regenerated using package.json and package-lock.json, it should NOT be put in git.
  => node-modules has to be in .igitignore file

  ## => package.json and package-lock.json will be created using **_npm init_**

###### Transitive dependencies

a package (parcel) that depends on another packages (babel)

- => every dependency (package) has it's own package.json

### What is .parcel-cache?

- temporary folder

* parcel.cache folder stores information about the project when parcel builds it, so that when it rebuilds, it doesn't have to re-parse and re-analyse everything from scratch.

This is the reason parcel can be fast in development mode.

Parcel.cache should be added in .gitignore because it can be re-generated on the server, and this cache should not be committed in the repository

---

**_NPX package-name source-file-name_**

- Igniting the app using the command **_npx parcel index.html_**

### What is npx?

npx means **N**ode-module-**P**ackage e**X**ecute the .
=> this builds the development build of the app/project and host it on to the server (eg:localserver:1234)

It allows developers to execute any JS package available on NPM registry without even installing it.

---

##### using/ fetching CDN is costly task,

    => change in version of react lets you mention it on CDN link everytime

=>therefore, it is preferred to have react and react-dom in local instead of fetching it from CDN everytime.

- npm i react
- npm i react-dom

* import react and react-dom from node-modules
* make the _script_ link in html to _MODULE_

### What is Hot Module Replacement?

- HMR shows the reflection of changes( such as exchanges, adds, or removes modules) on browser automatically without full reload, while the application is running,
- without needing to change the whole web page that improves the development experience, hence saving the development time
- the application state is retained using HMR (which is lost during a full reload).

---

### What is tree shaking?

- removing un-used or dead code from project/ app using bundlers like parcel to **optimise the code** and **improve web performance**

- This basically means that, at compile time, the compiler can determine imports and exports and programmatically decide which code should be executed.
- The reason is because most of the packages we install really don’t need all of their dependencies and this results in importing large bundles where we end up needing just a small part of the bundle.

---

### What is .gitignore ? What should we add and not add into it?

- A gitignore file specifies intentionally untracked files that Git should ignore.
- node/ Patterns/ files/ packages that can be re-generated on ther server will be added in .gitignore .
- example: parcel-cache

---

## local code ==> pushed to git repo => then the server will fetch the code from Git that has packages

### What is **dist** folder?

- temporary folder

* dist folder is created upon production build, that has the minified version of the files (html, css, js) written by developer .
* dist folder keeps the track of modified, minified files
* ---

### What is **browserLists**

- browserList specifies the number and type of browser the App is going to be definitely compatible with

* **_Conclusion_**

we have build _Create React App_ manually ourselvess
